So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved,
 and said, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they have put him!"
So Peter and the other disciple started for the tomb.
Both were running, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first.
He bent over and looked in
 at the strips of linen
 lying there but did not go in.
Then Simon Peter came along behind him and went straight into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there,
as well as the cloth that had been wrapped around Jesus' head.
 The cloth was still lying in its place, separate from the linen.
Finally the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first,
 also went inside. He saw and believed.
(They still did not understand from Scripture
 that Jesus had to rise from the dead.)
Then the disciples went back to where they were staying.
Now Mary stood outside the tomb crying. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb
and saw two angels in white,
 seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot.
They asked her, "Woman, why are you crying?"
At this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there,
 but she did not realize that it was Jesus.
He asked her, 
Jesus said to her, 
Jesus said, 
Mary Magdalene
 went to the disciples
 with the news: "I have seen the Lord!" And she told them that he had said these things to her.
On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together, with the doors locked for fear of the Jewish leaders,
 Jesus came and stood among them and said, 
After he said this, he showed them his hands and side.
 The disciples were overjoyed
 when they saw the Lord.
Again Jesus said, 
And with that he breathed on them and said, 
If you forgive anyone's sins, their sins are forgiven; if you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven."
Now Thomas
 (also known as Didymus
), one of the Twelve, was not with the disciples when Jesus came.
So the other disciples told him, "We have seen the Lord!"
A week later his disciples were in the house again, and Thomas was with them. Though the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, 
Then he said to Thomas, 
Thomas said to him, "My Lord and my God!"
Then Jesus told him, 
Jesus performed many other signs
 in the presence of his disciples, which are not recorded in this book.
But these are written that you may believe
 that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God,
 and that by believing you may have life in his name.