Now Judas, who betrayed him, knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with his disciples.
So Judas came to the garden, guiding
 a detachment of soldiers and some officials from the chief priests and the Pharisees.
 They were carrying torches, lanterns and weapons.
Jesus, knowing all that was going to happen to him,
 went out and asked them, 
"Jesus of Nazareth,"
 they replied.
When Jesus said, 
 they drew back and fell to the ground.
Again he asked them, 
Jesus answered, 
This happened so that the words he had spoken would be fulfilled: 
Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant, cutting off his right ear. (The servant's name was Malchus.)
Jesus commanded Peter, 
Then the detachment of soldiers with its commander and the Jewish officials
 arrested Jesus. They bound him
and brought him first to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas,
 the high priest that year.
Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jewish leaders that it would be good if one man died for the people.
Simon Peter and another disciple were following Jesus. Because this disciple was known to the high priest,
 he went with Jesus into the high priest's courtyard,
but Peter had to wait outside at the door. The other disciple, who was known to the high priest, came back, spoke to the servant girl on duty there and brought Peter in.
"You aren't one of this man's disciples too, are you?" she asked Peter.
It was cold, and the servants and officials stood around a fire
 they had made to keep warm. Peter also was standing with them, warming himself.
Meanwhile, the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching.
"I have spoken openly to the world,"
Why question me? Ask those who heard me. Surely they know what I said."
When Jesus said this, one of the officials
 nearby slapped him in the face.
 "Is this the way you answer the high priest?" he demanded.
"If I said something wrong,"
Then Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas
 the high priest.
Meanwhile, Simon Peter was still standing there warming himself.
 So they asked him, "You aren't one of his disciples too, are you?"
One of the high priest's servants, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off,
 challenged him, "Didn't I see you with him in the garden?"
Again Peter denied it, and at that moment a rooster began to crow.
Then the Jewish leaders took Jesus from Caiaphas to the palace of the Roman governor.
 By now it was early morning, and to avoid ceremonial uncleanness they did not enter the palace,
 because they wanted to be able to eat the Passover.
So Pilate came out to them and asked, "What charges are you bringing against this man?"
"If he were not a criminal," they replied, "we would not have handed him over to you."
Pilate said, "Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law."
This took place to fulfill what Jesus had said about the kind of death he was going to die.
Pilate then went back inside the palace,
 summoned Jesus and asked him, "Are you the king of the Jews?"
"Is that your own idea,"
"Am I a Jew?" Pilate replied. "Your own people and chief priests handed you over to me. What is it you have done?"
Jesus said, 
"You are a king, then!" said Pilate.
"What is truth?" retorted Pilate. With this he went out again to the Jews gathered there and said, "I find no basis for a charge against him.
But it is your custom for me to release to you one prisoner at the time of the Passover. Do you want me to release 'the king of the Jews'?"
They shouted back, "No, not him! Give us Barabbas!" Now Barabbas had taken part in an uprising.