At dawn he appeared again in the temple courts, where all the people gathered around him, and he sat down to teach them.
The teachers of the law and the Pharisees brought in a woman caught in adultery. They made her stand before the group
and said to Jesus, "Teacher, this woman was caught in the act of adultery.
In the Law Moses commanded us to stone such women.
They were using this question as a trap,
When they kept on questioning him, he straightened up and said to them, "Let any one of you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone
Again he stooped down and wrote on the ground.
At this, those who heard began to go away one at a time, the older ones first, until only Jesus was left, with the woman still standing there.
Jesus straightened up and asked her, "Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?"
"No one, sir," she said.
When Jesus spoke again to the people, he said, 
The Pharisees challenged him, "Here you are, appearing as your own witness; your testimony is not valid."
Jesus answered, 
You judge by human standards;
 I pass judgment on no one.
But if I do judge, my decisions are true, because I am not alone. I stand with the Father, who sent me.
In your own Law it is written that the testimony of two witnesses is true.
I am one who testifies for myself; my other witness is the Father, who sent me."
Then they asked him, "Where is your father?"
He spoke these words while teaching
 in the temple courts near the place where the offerings were put.
 Yet no one seized him, because his hour had not yet come.
Once more Jesus said to them, 
This made the Jews ask, "Will he kill himself? Is that why he says, 
?"
But he continued, 
I told you that you would die in your sins; if you do not believe that I am he,
 you will indeed die in your sins."
"Who are you?" they asked.
"I have much to say in judgment of you. But he who sent me is trustworthy,
 and what I have heard from him I tell the world."
They did not understand that he was telling them about his Father.
So Jesus said, 
The one who sent me is with me; he has not left me alone,
 for I always do what pleases him."
Even as he spoke, many believed in him.
To the Jews who had believed him, Jesus said, 
Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free."
They answered him, "We are Abraham's descendants
 and have never been slaves of anyone. How can you say that we shall be set free?"
Jesus replied, 
Now a slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it forever.
So if the Son sets you free,
 you will be free indeed.
I know that you are Abraham's descendants. Yet you are looking for a way to kill me,
 because you have no room for my word.
I am telling you what I have seen in the Father's presence,
 and you are doing what you have heard from your father.
"
"Abraham is our father," they answered.
As it is, you are looking for a way to kill me,
 a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God.
 Abraham did not do such things.
You are doing the works of your own father."
Jesus said to them, 
Why is my language not clear to you? Because you are unable to hear what I say.
You belong to your father, the devil,
 and you want to carry out your father's desires.
 He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
Yet because I tell the truth,
 you do not believe me!
Can any of you prove me guilty of sin? If I am telling the truth, why don't you believe me?
Whoever belongs to God hears what God says.
 The reason you do not hear is that you do not belong to God."
The Jews answered him, "Aren't we right in saying that you are a Samaritan
 and demon-possessed?"
"I am not possessed by a demon,"
I am not seeking glory for myself;
 but there is one who seeks it, and he is the judge.
Very truly I tell you, whoever obeys my word will never see death."
At this they exclaimed, "Now we know that you are demon-possessed!
 Abraham died and so did the prophets, yet you say that whoever obeys your word will never taste death.
Are you greater than our father Abraham?
 He died, and so did the prophets. Who do you think you are?"
Jesus replied, 
Though you do not know him,
 I know him.
 If I said I did not, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and obey his word.
Your father Abraham
 rejoiced at the thought of seeing my day; he saw it
 and was glad."
"You are not yet fifty years old," they said to him, "and you have seen Abraham!"
"Very truly I tell you,"
At this, they picked up stones to stone him,
 but Jesus hid himself,
 slipping away from the temple grounds.